README.md, before:

# Project freezing-wallhack

This repo contains my solution to a task outlined in the [devops_project.html](devops_project.html) file of the repo.

## Pre Task Requirements

### rbenv
Use rbenv to avoid polluting the system ruby with any gems installed.

1. Follow the instructions in the github repo: [Basic github checkout](https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv#basic-github-checkout)
* Install rbenv ruby-build plugin in order to install another ruby: [Recommended rbenv plugin install](https://github.com/sstephenson/ruby-build#installing-as-an-rbenv-plugin-recommended)
* Install the latest ruby version using the plugin:
		
		rbenv install 2.0.0-p451
		rbenv global 2.0.0-p451
	
### bundler gem
The bundler gem installs the bundle utility which allows you to install dependencies defined in a GemFile.

	gem install bundler	
	
### Vagrant
Download and install the latest version for your system from the [Vagrant download page](http://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html).

### Virtualbox
Download and install the latest version for your system from the [Virtualbox download page](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads).

## Task (Part 1)

## Task (Part 2)

## Task (Part 3)

# Deliverables

# Timeline
This section tracks the time taken to develop the required sections.

**Project Setup**: *30 mins* This entails setting up the repo and organizing the way to communicate the solution.
	
**Pre-Task Requirements**: *~ 1 hr* This covers the setup required to test and interact with the solution. 

**Task (Part 1)**:

Commit message:

Complete Task #1
 * Add a Gemfile for project gem dependencies installed by bundler.
 * Add a Berksfile containing the cookbook dependencies.
 * Add a Vagrantfile containing the vm definition.
 * Update the README.md with usage instructions.

README.md, after:

# Project freezing-wallhack

This repo contains my solution to a task outlined in the [devops_project.html](devops_project.html) file of the repo.

## Pre Task Requirements

### rbenv
Use rbenv to avoid polluting the system ruby with any gems installed.

1. Follow the instructions in the github repo: [Basic github checkout](https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv#basic-github-checkout)
* Install rbenv ruby-build plugin in order to install another ruby: [Recommended rbenv plugin install](https://github.com/sstephenson/ruby-build#installing-as-an-rbenv-plugin-recommended)
* Install the latest ruby version using the plugin:
		
		rbenv install 2.0.0-p451
		rbenv global 2.0.0-p451
	
### bundler gem
The bundler gem installs the bundle utility which allows you to install dependencies defined in a GemFile.

	gem install bundler	
	
Once bundler is installed, run it to install the needed gems:

	bundle install
	
### Vagrant
Download and install the latest version for your system from the [Vagrant download page](http://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html).

Once Vagrant is installed, install plugins with the following:

	vagrant plugin install vagrant-omnibus
	vagrant plugin install vagrant-berkshelf

### Virtualbox
Download and install the latest version for your system from the [Virtualbox download page](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads).

## Task (Part 1)
Bring up the logstash vm by running `vagrant up`.

Once the vm is up and provisioned successfully, you can login to the vm by running `vagrant ssh`.

Access the kibana interface by browsing on your local machine to [http://localhost:8080](http://127.0.0.1:8080).

## Task (Part 2)

## Task (Part 3)

# Deliverables
1. The [Berksfile](Berksfile) and [Vagrantfile](Vagrantfile) are the two files needed to provision a server with logstash, elasticsearch and kibana. The [Berksfile](Berksfile) contains the chef cookbook dependencies for spinning up the server. The [Vagrantfile](Vagrantfile) contains the vm instance configuration data to successfully provision a vm with the needed services.


# Timeline
This section tracks the time taken to develop the required sections.

**Project Setup**: *30 mins* This entails setting up the repo and organizing the way to communicate the solution.
	
**Pre-Task Requirements**: *~ 1 hr* This covers the setup required to test and interact with the solution. 

**Task (Part 1)**: *~ 5 hrs* A lot of this time was spent waiting for the vm to spinup while getting the cookbooks working in the Vagrantfile. The machine used to develop this solution lacked the processing power and disk I/O bandwidth for developing using VMs.

* Possible solution for scalability: http://devblog.springest.com/complete-logstash-stack-on-aws-opsworks-in-15-minutes/
* More work could be done to run elasticsearch and kibana on their own servers. The logstash cookbook sets up an embedded elasticsearch server but only recommends using it for testing purposes.
